# Divine--oe-https://github.com/miss-didi444/Divine--oe-/edit/main/README.md
### The Effectiveness of Virtual Care/ Telehealth in a Post- Pandemic Society

The outbreak of Covid-19 led to a surge in demand of a branch of health care that for over a decade, very few people sought after. The pandemic caused people to switch to virtual care for their medical and mental health as a way to avoid crowded places and protect themselves from the virus. ‘Virtual Care’ or ‘Telehealth’ (not to be confused with ’Telemedicine’) is a general term that is used to envelop all the healthcare services that can be accessed through communication technology. Such services include;
•	telemedicine (defined as the sharing of health-related information between patient and healthcare provider(s) through communication technologies. Examples of telemedical services are teleradiology, teledermatology, telemental health);
•	virtual nursing;
•	primary care (preventative care, health education, health promotion);
•	urgent care (in situations such as breathing difficulties, moderate back pain, fever or flu, UTIs, vomiting, diarrhea, etc.);
•	dermatology;
•	mental health;
•	chronic-condition management care; amongst others.
In essence, telehealth offers health care services to patients at the comfort of your mobile or electronic device which means that all you need is a smartphone or webcam inclusive device, internet connection, and a virtual healthcare provider (most of which operate with their own apps). Though it may not sound as comfortable, studies have shown that the percentage of people interested in using virtual care rose to 76% in 2021 from 11% in 2019. In addition, 83% of patients still expect to be virtually attended to in the post pandemic society. 
*** https://news.careinnovations.com/hubfs/how-virtual-care-benefits-patients-clinicians-healthcare-organizations.jpg
### FORMS OF VIRTUAL CARE
*** Virtual care can be delivered in any of these three ways: 
1.	Synchronous— the doctor is communicating with the patient in real time via a video or voice call.
2.	Asynchronous— the patient records data or takes images to share with the doctor later.
3.	Remote patient monitoring— measurements such as weight, temperature or blood pressure are shared with the healthcare provider.
### BENEFITS OF VIRTUAL CARE FOR PATIENTS
 It is quite easy to see why patients decide towards virtual care. The average wait time for a physical appointment with a behavioral clinician is 48 days. MDLiveCare, a leading virtual care provider, connects patients with one in two or three days. At the beginning of the pandemic, video conferences and other virtual communication systems were applied by several healthcare providers in monitoring patients with long term illnesses to prevent potential exposure to the virus during their hospital visits. It also enabled getting mental health support by connecting you with a licensed mental health social worker, who will guide you through a short assessment. Then, they will recommend next steps such as a mental health provider or other resources, according to your specific needs. This option is suitable for people going through addiction, depression, stress, family or marital problems, anxiety, sleep problems, etc. Virtual care aids in fostering trusting relationships between patients and healthcare provider, where patients have greater control over their standard of care.
 ### BENEFITS OF VIRTUAL CARE FOR HEALTHCARE PROVIDERS
 Virtual care, while patient oriented, is also widely beneficial to healthcare professionals especially physicians, nurses, and clinicians. Telecommunication provided a safer working environment for healthcare providers during the pandemic by treating milder symptomatic patients remotely, thereby reducing their exposure to the virus and saving more bed space, equipment and energy for more chronic patients.
 A patient who experiences mild symptoms of Covid- 19, can be attended to from home. From the initial testing to see if the patient has the virus to the final tests that confirm the patient has recovered from the virus. Physicians who treat patients suffering from chronic heart failure, may find telehealth useful in the prediction and prevention of acute decompensation (sudden worsening of signs and symptoms) by tracking symptoms that may require closer monitoring and augmentation of treatment. A physician can monitor the patient and guide them through necessary information via video calls or even text messages (depending on the task). Required tools such as testing kits, thermometers and prescribed drugs for treatment can be delivered to the patient’s doorstep.
 The reduction in unnecessary emergency visits or hospital admissions significantly reduces administrative costs of admitting or discharging a patient, as well as costs for meals and other miscellaneous equipment and activities. It also reduces the strain on healthcare officials in the emergency ward and will hopefully in the future, provide a more flexible schedule for healthcare providers.
 Health professionals can communicate and seek advice from each other more promptly using virtual care technology. It also improves access to patients and information such as a patient’s medical history. A study shows that phone calls, live video conferencing, and electronic health records (EHR) can improve the decision-making process among a healthcare team in situations that would require urgent care. 
### LIMITATIONS TO VIRTUAL CARE
A remote based approach towards patient care doesn’t go without certain limitations. The most obvious being that it is impossible to attend every type of visit virtually. Tests such as blood, urine and imaging tests which require professional skill would still warrant a physical visit. Most non-infectious diseases would require hospital visits in order to be properly diagnosed. Some patients who have not experienced virtual consultations before or aren’t conversant with the technology required may prefer face-to-face visits regardless of the possible risk. The same can be said about healthcare providers as well. Personal information security when sharing health data electronically is also something of concern. Despite virtual care being a cost-efficient option, some telehealth services are not fully covered by insurance companies, which may lead to out-of-pocket payments. It is therefore important not to consider telehealth as a replacement to traditional healthcare but rather a different option where patients are remotely connected to the healthcare provider they need.
There are telehealth projects in existence in developing countries, though no evidence of sustainability of these projects have been defined. This may be due to their already existing struggle with large- scale record keeping, accessibility and functionality of their healthcare systems, as well as a lack of human and non-human resources. Two of the few current successes of telehealth in these regions are health education and humanitarian programs.

While telehealth remains in discrepancy with existing health care systems worldwide, it is a recipe with the potential to improve health outcomes — and an improved healthcare system means a happier, healthier, and more productive society. 
### REFERENCES
1.	InTouch Health. (2020, February 4). Telemedicine vs. virtual care: Defining the difference. InTouch Health. Retrieved February 6, 2022, from https://intouchhealth.com/finding-the-right-term-for-modern-digital-healthcare/ 
2.	Ingham, D. (2021, September 7). Four types of virtual care. Four Types of Virtual Care | Allina Health. Retrieved February 6, 2022, from https://www.allinahealth.org/healthysetgo/care/four-types-of-virtual-care 
3.	Care Innovation. (2022). How virtual care benefits patients, clinicians & Healthcare Organizations. How Virtual Care Benefits Patients, Clinicians & Healthcare Organizations. Retrieved February 6, 2022, from https://news.careinnovations.com/blog/how-virtual-care-benefits-patients-clinicians-healthcare-organizations 
4.	Monaghesh, E., & Hajizadeh, A. (2020, August 1). The role of telehealth during COVID-19 outbreak: A systematic review based on current evidence - BMC public health. BioMed Central. Retrieved February 6, 2022, from https://bmcpublichealth.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12889-020-09301-4 
5.	Cigna Newsroom. (2022). Convenient, cost-effective, and high-quality virtual care is here to stay. Cigna Newsroom. Retrieved February 6, 2022, from https://newsroom.cigna.com/convenient-cost-effective-and-high-quality-virtual-care-is-here-to-stay 
6.	Scott, R. E. (2015, February 2). Telehealth in the developing world: Current status and future Prospects. Researchgate. Retrieved February 6, 2022, from https://www.researchgate.net/publication/276337781_Telehealth_in_the_developing_world_current_status_and_future_prospects/fulltext/57bd2eaa08ae37ee394a79a2/Telehealth-in-the-developing-world-current-status-and-future-prospects.pdf 
7.	 M. S. H. S. (2022). What is urgent care? when should you use it? Mount Sinai Health System. Retrieved February 6, 2022, from https://www.mountsinai.org/locations/urgent-care/what-is-urgent-care 
8.	MDLIVE. (2022). How MDLIVE telehealth works. MDLIVE. Retrieved February 6, 2022, from https://www.mdlive.com/how-telehealth-works/ 
9.	Watson, S. (2020, October 12). Telehealth: The advantages and disadvantages. Harvard Health. Retrieved February 6, 2022, from https://www.health.harvard.edu/staying-healthy/telehealth-the-advantages-and-disadvantages 
10.	Manouchehr Saljoughian, P. D. (2021, August 12). The benefits and limitations of Telehealth. U.S. Pharmacist – The Leading Journal in Pharmacy. Retrieved February 6, 2022, from https://www.uspharmacist.com/article/the-benefits-and-limitations-of-telehealth 

